### How can reduce Misses?

#### Misses:

- ###### Compulsory : The first access to the  block is not in a cache, so the block will brought into the cache, which is also called "First reference misses".

- ###### Capacity : In the process of program running, some blocks are discarded, and the retrieval after that will lead to capacity misses.

- ###### Conflict : If block-placement strategy is set associative or direct mapped, conflict misses (in addition to compulsory & capacity misses) will occur because a block can be discarded and later retrieved if too many blocks map. Also called collision misses or interference misses.

(In all cases, assume total cache size not changed)

#### 1. Reduce Misses via Larger Block Size

Interpretation of images : decreased number of read instruction lines leads to substantial increase of conflict misses.

#### 2. Reduce Misses via Higher Associativity

- 2 : 1 Cache Rule : 

  Miss Rate 1-way associative cache size X ---- Miss Rate 2-way associative cache size X/2

- Beware: Execution time is only final measure.

- Memory Access Time vs. Miss Rate : 

  Interpretation of the example : $AMAT=T_{hit}+\eta*T_{p}$, if we improve the degree of association, then we can know that the miss rate will decrease, but we may use more comparing unit and switch to lower $T_{hit}$.

#### 3. Reducing Misses via a "Victim Cache"

-   We have four line to put the cache that is out of date, and we can use it when we need it and move it from victim cache to the cache.

##### Writing Through vs. Writing Back 

- Writing Through : When we modify the cache, we modify the memory at once. But we can imagine that the cache is useless. So the write buffer appears. We only modify the data in the write buffer, not the data in the memory when modifying the cache.
- Writing Back : When we modify the data in the cache, we call this block "dirty". When they are cleared in the victim cache, they should be updated to memory.

Mentioned : IBM, HP, DEC(Digital Equipment Corporation) 

#### 4. Reducing Misses via "Pseudo-Associativity"

When we need to store data, we first search the cache line by index. If the cache line is invalid, we can store the data in the cache line. The highest bit of the cache line is opposite to the index of the data. However, there is a problem when there are two data with the same tag and different indexes at the highest bit. So we only carry the highest bit of the index. This method reduces forced misses, but increases hit time.

#### 5. Reducing Misses by Hardware Prefetching of Instructions & Datals

